[docs] Add unified manual about edition switch (#14127)
deckhouse/deckhouse: docs/documentation/pages/DECKHOUSE-FAQ.md

kubectl -n d8-system exec -ti svc/deckhouse-leader -c deckhouse -- deckhouse-controller edit static-cluster-configuration
```

### How to switch Deckhouse edition to CE/BE/SE/SE+/EE?

{% alert level="warning" %}
- The functionality of this guide is validated for Deckhouse versions starting from `v1.70`. If your version is older, please refer to the documentation specific to your version.
- For commercial editions, you need a valid license key (you can [request a temporary key](https://deckhouse.io/products/enterprise_edition.html) if necessary) that supports the desired edition.
- The guide assumes the use of the public container registry address: `registry.deckhouse.io`. If you are using a different container registry address, modify the commands accordingly or refer to the [guide on switching Deckhouse to use a different registry](#how-do-i-configure-deckhouse-to-use-a-third-party-registry).
- The Deckhouse CE/BE/SE/SE+ editions do not support the cloud providers `dynamix`, `openstack`, `VCD`, and `VSphere` (VSphere is supported in SE+) and a number of modules. A detailed comparison is available in the [documentation](revision-comparison.html).

> - All commands are executed on the master node of the existing cluster.

Reviewer: maybe specify also about root-user

{% endalert %}

1. Prepare variables for the license token and new edition name:

  {% alert level="info" %}
  It is not necessary to fill the `NEW_EDITION` and `AUTH_STRING` variables when switching to Deckhouse CE edition.
  The `NEW_EDITION` variable should match your desired Deckhouse edition. For example, to switch to:
- CE, the variable should be `ce`;
- BE, the variable should be `be`;
- SE, the variable should be `se`;

> - SE+, it should be `se-plus`;

Reviewer: I think you need continue "the variable should be"

kubectl -n d8-system exec -ti svc/deckhouse-leader -c deckhouse -- deckhouse-controller edit static-cluster-configuration
```

### How to switch Deckhouse edition to CE/BE/SE/SE+/EE?

{% alert level="warning" %}

> - The functionality of this guide is validated for Deckhouse versions starting from `v1.70`. If your version is older, please refer to the documentation specific to your version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The functionality of this guide is validated for Deckhouse versions starting from `v1.70`. If your version is older, use the corresponding documentation.
```

> - For commercial editions, you need a valid license key (you can [request a temporary key](https://deckhouse.io/products/enterprise_edition.html) if necessary) that supports the desired edition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For commercial editions, you need a valid license key that supports the desired edition. If necessary, you can [request a temporary key](https://deckhouse.ru/products/enterprise_edition.html).
```

   Aug 21 11:04:29 master ee-to-se-0 bashible.sh[53407]: Successful annotate node master-ee-to-se-0 with annotation node.deckhouse.io/configuration-checksum=9cbe6db6c91574b8b732108a654c99423733b20f04848d0b4e1e2dadb231206a
   Aug 21 11:04:29 master-ee-to-se-0 systemd[1]: bashible.service: Deactivated successfully.
   ```

1. Start a temporary pod for the new Deckhouse edition to obtain current digests and a list of modules:

   ```shell
   DECKHOUSE_VERSION=$(kubectl -n d8-system get deploy deckhouse -ojson | jq -r '.spec.template.spec.containers[] | select(.name == "deckhouse") | .image' | awk -F: '{print $2}')
   kubectl run $NEW_EDITION-image --image=registry.deckhouse.io/deckhouse/$NEW_EDITION/install:$DECKHOUSE_VERSION --command sleep --infinity
   ```

1. Once the pod is in `Running` state, execute the following commands:

   ```shell
   NEW_EDITION_MODULES=$(kubectl exec $NEW_EDITION-image -- ls -l deckhouse/modules/ | grep -oE "\d.*-\w*" | awk {'print $9'} | cut -c5-)
   USED_MODULES=$(kubectl get modules -o custom-columns=NAME:.metadata.name,SOURCE:.properties.source,STATE:.properties.state,ENABLED:.status.phase | grep Embedded | grep -E 'Enabled|Ready' | awk {'print $1'})

>    HANDLER=$(kubectl exec $NEW_EDITION-image -- cat deckhouse/candi/images_digests.json | jq -r ".deckhouse.webhookHandler")

Reviewer: As I can see you dont use HANDLER in following steps. Maybe we dont need to set this variable? And it is for DECKHOUSE_KUBE_RBAC_PROXY, DECKHOUSE_INIT_CONTAINER the same?

   DECKHOUSE_KUBE_RBAC_PROXY=$(kubectl exec $NEW_EDITION-image -- cat deckhouse/candi/images_digests.json | jq -r ".common.kubeRbacProxy")
   DECKHOUSE_INIT_CONTAINER=$(kubectl exec $NEW_EDITION-image -- cat deckhouse/candi/images_digests.json | jq -r ".common.init")
   MODULES_WILL_DISABLE=$(echo $USED_MODULES | tr ' ' '\n' | grep -Fxv -f <(echo $NEW_EDITION_MODULES | tr ' ' '\n'))
   ```

1. Verify that the modules used in the cluster are supported in the desired edition. To see the list of modules not supported in the new edition and will be disabled:

   ```shell
   echo $MODULES_WILL_DISABLE
   ```

  > Check the list to ensure the functionality of these modules is not in use in your cluster and you are ready to disable them.

  Disable the modules not supported by the new edition:

   ```shell
   echo $MODULES_WILL_DISABLE | 

>      tr ' ' '\n' | awk {'print "d8 platform module disable",$1'} | bash

Reviewer: delete this newline

1. Wait for the Deckhouse pod to become `Ready` and for [all the queued jobs to complete](#how-to-check-the-job-queue-in-deckhouse). If an `ImagePullBackOff` error is generated in the process, wait for the pod to be restarted automatically.
1. Execute the `deckhouse-controller helper change-registry` command from the Deckhouse pod with the new edition parameters:

   Use the following command to check the Deckhouse pod's status:
  To switch to BE/SE/SE+/EE editions:

   ```shell
   kubectl -n d8-system get po -l app=deckhouse
   kubectl -n d8-system exec -ti svc/deckhouse-leader -c deckhouse -- deckhouse-controller helper change-registry --user=license-token --password=$LICENSE_TOKEN --new-deckhouse-tag=$DECKHOUSE_VERSION registry.deckhouse.io/deckhouse/$NEW_EDITION
   ```

   Use the following command to check the Deckhouse queue:
  To switch to CE edition:

   ```shell
   kubectl -n d8-system exec deploy/deckhouse -c deckhouse -- deckhouse-controller queue list
   kubectl -n d8-system exec -ti svc/deckhouse-leader -c deckhouse -- deckhouse-controller helper change-registry --new-deckhouse-tag=$DECKHOUSE_VERSION registry.deckhouse.io/deckhouse/ce
   ```

> 1. Check if there are any pods with the Deckhouse EE registry address left in the cluster:

Reviewer: I think this step was usable. Or not?

Author: Restored

  Disable the modules not supported by the new edition:

   ```shell
   echo $MODULES_WILL_DISABLE | tr ' ' '\n' | awk {'print "d8 platform module disable",$1'} | bash
   ```

  Wait for the Deckhouse pod to reach `Ready` state and [ensure all tasks in the queue are completed](#how-to-check-the-job-queue-in-deckhouse).

1. Execute the `deckhouse-controller helper change-registry` command from the Deckhouse pod with the new edition parameters:

  To switch to BE/SE/SE+/EE editions:

   ```shell
   kubectl -n d8-system exec -ti svc/deckhouse-leader -c deckhouse -- deckhouse-controller helper change-registry --user=license-token --password=$LICENSE_TOKEN --new-deckhouse-tag=$DECKHOUSE_VERSION registry.deckhouse.io/deckhouse/$NEW_EDITION
   ```

  To switch to CE edition:

   ```shell
   kubectl -n d8-system exec -ti svc/deckhouse-leader -c deckhouse -- deckhouse-controller helper change-registry --new-deckhouse-tag=$DECKHOUSE_VERSION registry.deckhouse.io/deckhouse/ce
   ```

1. Check if there are any pods with the Deckhouse old edition address left in the cluster:

   ```shell
   kubectl get pods -A -o json | jq -r '.items[] | select(.spec.containers[]

>       | select(.image | contains("deckhouse.io/deckhouse/$NEW_EDITION"))) | .metadata.namespace + "\t" + .metadata.name' | sort | uniq

Reviewer: Also, please, delete new line

   ```

>    > If the module was disabled in the process, enable it again:

Reviewer: In what situation it can be?

   >
   > ```shell

>    > kubectl -n d8-system exec deploy/deckhouse -- deckhouse-controller module enable registry-packages-proxy

Reviewer: kubectl -n d8-system exec -ti svc/deckhouse-leader -- deckhouse-controller module enable registry-packages-proxy
